This video focuses on the set up for
the solver on Google Sheets.
You should watch this video after you
watch the main video for session two.
I have uploaded the spreadsheet for
the Zooter problem to Google Sheets.
This spreadsheet reflects the trail
solution of 500 units of each Zooter time.
I've also entered all the formulas for
the objective function and for
the use resource amounts.
On Google Sheets the solver
is one of the add-ons.
In order to load the solver,
we need to go to add-ons,
click on get add-ons,
type solver in the search box.
And when you find it, install it.
Okay, here we have solver
appearing under add-ons.
A couple of comments about the shortcuts.
The shortcut for displaying and
editing a formula in a particular
cell in Google Sheets,
is the same as in Windows F2.
So, if we go to the objective function
cell, F10, we can display and
edit its content, using the same shortcut.
The same applies to the shortcut F4
that can be used to impose absolute cell
references.
If we check the cell E14 and
highlight the decision variable cells,
We can change the addresses of
the cells between absolute and
relative by repeated pressing F4.
Okay, let's scroll this over.
Let's select add-ons, solver, start.
This solver dialogue window appears
on the right side of the sheet.
Let's specify the objective function.
In Google sheets it is
convenient to first go
to the objective function
cell on the spreadsheet.
And then go to the said objective.
So now,
we've selected the objective function.
We do the same thing for
decision variables.
We highlight C10 and D10 first,
and then go by changing box,
and C10 and D10 appear there.
Finally, constraints.
We first click on add,
then we highlight the cells E14,
E16, then go to the left hand side.
After that, we highlight G14, G16.
And go to the right-hand side and
then click okay.
And now constrained has been added.
Now, we need to specify that our
decision variable's our integer.
Again, we click add.
We highlight C10 and D10,
we go to left-hand side.
And then in the relation box,
we select integer and we click okay.
And we see that our constraint is added.
In solving method, we stay with
the standard SLSGRG nonlinear,
because it's pretty much the same as
GRG nonlinear we used on Windows.
Finally, we click on options and
make sure that ignore
integer is unchecked and
assume non-negative is checked.
The last option make sure that our
decision variables are all non-negative.
We click okay.
And then we click solve.
The solver starts working, and
then displays the optimal solution.